---
layout: page
title: Letters to the Editor
author: ChloeMajonica
---
Immediately upon first glance of my Monday issue of my week of “The Egyptian Gazette” I was intrigued by the inclusion of the ‘Letters to the Editor’ section. As a history major, I am constantly learning about different time periods and cultures, while desperately trying to grasp the true feelings of those who were living in these time periods and cultures. So, when I saw this ‘Letters to the Editor’ section, I imagined the potential for greater understanding of what people were feeling in Egypt during the early 20th century. With this being said, when I began identifying what part of “The Egyptian Gazette” I would like to analyze further I directed my focus to this section.

As I began my research, I first looked into the ‘Analysis Directory’ on our class website, where I noticed a student in a previous semester had already tackled the ‘Letters to the Editor’ section, focusing primarily on the letters in 1905. With this in mind I decided that I would look into 1906, and after gathering my data and making my analysis, I would compare our findings to see if public concern had shifted between the two years.

After I had committed to this analysis question, I began to construct my XPath query of the contents digital Egyptian Gazette. I looked to my predecessor who relied on the query, //div[@type="item"][contains(., 'LETTERS TO THE EDITOR')], and decided to use this as a preliminary search. I also search //div [contains(., 'LETTER TO THE EDITOR')] to account for any differences in the way the heading varied between issues. Ultimately however, I felt that this query was far too basic. Yes, it returned all instances of the ‘Letters to the Editor’ section within “The Egyptian Gazette” but, it did not give me much else.

So, I decided to build on this query and try to pinpoint the titles of each individual letter within the ‘Letters to the Editor’ section. In order to do this, I started with the XPath query //div[@type= ="section"][@feature="letters"]. When encoding the digital Egyptian Gazette, each student should have included the ‘@feature="letters"’ for the section ‘Letters to the Editor.’ Thus, when querying this, I was able to pinpoint the exact location of the section. Obviously this is doing essentially the same thing as the initial query above, however, in my next query I tweaked it by adding //head to the end, allowing to pick up each individual headline within that section.

I had quite a few results after doing this, but I felt that I needed to take into consideration students different styles of coding, keeping in mind that not everyone would make the title of the letters a headline, so I then constructed my next query. This time I queried, //div[@type= ="section"][@feature="letters"]/div[@type="item"]/p[1]. With this query, I was going into the ‘Letters to the Editor’ section, then into each item within each division in that section, finally looking at the first paragraph in each division, another potential places for titles of letters. This did not return nearly as many results as the previous query, but this query served its purpose by looking for any differences in encoding that may have caused my previous query to miss a title.

Finally, I felt that to really make sure I had as many of the titles as possible I should again run the previous query, //div[@type= ="section"][@feature="letters"]/div[@type="item"]/p[1], but change the ending to /head[1] to compare these results with my first search of the headlines in the section to again make sure that I did not miss any.

After I finished gathering my date through these queries, I needed to clean up my results which I did in Atom using regular expression. Once I had a cleaned up version of my results, I was able to cross-check the dates of the occurrences of ‘Letters to the Editor’ throughout the year of 1906 from my predecessor’s query, with the titles of the letters I had procured with my own query.
