<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<div type="page" n="1">
    <head>Bubonic Plague</head>
    The Bubonic Plague has continued to spread through the pages of the Egyptian Gazette. The Bubonic plague first made new coverage on January 2nd, 1905. This article found in the Local and General section of the newspaper reported that “During the week ending the 31st December, 15 cases of bubonic plague occurs throughout Egypt.” When I first read this report my curiosity ran high and I wanted to continue analyzing the bubonic plague that spread through Egypt. 
The Xpath Query I used, //head (??? HELP), returned 22 results that spanned from January 1905- February 1907. WRITE INFO EXPLAINING THE XPATH
The Bubonic Plague in 1905 is reported the most in January 1905 then July, August, September, October and finally November 9th.  The report on that day in November informs readers that another cases of the plague was discovered in a Greek pastry cook. This is the last report on the plague until May of 1906 when cases of the plague started spreading again. In 1906 the plague was reported one time in the months of May, June, and October and did not reappear in the Egyptian Gazette until February 1907. 
Looking deeper into the year of 1905, I analyzed the reports to see how many Egypt citizens had died from the Bubonic Plague. In the month of January, a total of 10 people had died from the Bubonic plague and in the Egyptian Gazette issue of January 2nd reported that “cases are due to infection conveyed by rats, which had been infected themselves by goods coming from India or Upper Egypt.” But the deaths did not stop there. A shocking 24 people died in July from the Bubonic Plague. The issue of the Egyptian Gazette on July 24th reported that since the first of January 173 cases have been reported which if you compared to amount of reported cases in 1904, it is 550 cases less. 
Moving into 1906, interestingly the amount of cases reported from the time of January 1st to June 10th for both years increased in 1906. In 1905 there were only 173 cases reported during that time period. In 1906 351 cases were reported. An issue that followed in October 1906 reported that Bubonic plague cases increased to 475 in 1906. Again, comparing 1906 to 1905 there were only 259 cases reported in 1905. What could be causing these increases? 

</div>
