---
layout: page
title: <!-- Death in Egypt -->
author: FaithNorthcutt
---
For my analysis project, I plan to focus on the deaths reported on in the Egyptian Gazette. This is because death is an important part of any culture as it connects and terrifies us all.  I plan to ask the question: to what extent is the type of death mentioned in the Egyptian Gazette based on region and what do these deaths say about the Egyptian people? To do this, I plan to create an analyzed map of all of the deaths mentioned in 1906-1907 and a chart based on how the person died to find any patterns.
	In my experience so far in reading this newspaper, I have found that most of the deaths mentioned are in the telegrams and the local and general sections.  Therefore, I will create an Xpath Quiery for any mention of the words death, dead, killed, murdered, attacked, etc. in those sections of the paper.  Then, I will use the dateline or place mentioned in the article and will map them and organize the kinds of deaths.  So far in my reading of this newspaper I have found that many of the deaths mentioned have been in relation to natural disasters (including the plague, fires, etc.), murders, and anti-Semitic attacks.  I am see what patterns emerge from this data.
	According to the Jerusalem Center for Public Affairs, they believe that “Alexandria in Egypt was the birthplace of anti-Semitism’s ideology. There also the first pogrom in history-as we now would call it-took place” (in 38 C.E.) (Horst). The Center also talks about how the first indication of a negative attitude towards the Jewish people stemmed from the writings of the Egyptian Priest, Manetho.  He writes that “Jews are dangerous and enemies of humankind” (Horst). Though many of these ideas and allegations happened long before the early twentieth-century, it is easy to see how effects of these beliefs affected Egyptians during this time as well.   Ironically, though, especially before the war, many Jews moved to Egypt to escape the strict regime of the Ottoman Empire, as Egypt was seen as “a safe haven and land of opportunity” (Takla 28).
	There were also a lot of reported cases of the plague mentioned in the newspaper during this time.  According to a census that calculated the number of deaths of the plague in each year, there were 631 cases of the plague and 475 deaths in 1906 alone (including the regions of Alexandria, Cairo, Damietta, Port Said, and Suez) (Public Health Records).  This plague was most likely cholera, as it was reported by Nancy Gallagher in her work, Egypt’s Other Wars: Epidemics and the Politics of Public Health that there was a major cholera outbreak in 1902.

 
Working Bibliography
Gallagher, Nancy. Egypt's Other Wars: Epidemics and the Politics of Public Health. Syracuse University Press, c1990. Published by the American University in Cairo Press. ISBN 977-424-295-5
Takla, Nefertiti. “Murderous Economies: Sex Trafficking and Political Economic Change in Alexandria, Egypt, 1914-1921.” Égypte/Monde Arabe, no. 17 (February 28, 2018): 23–47.
https://ia801901.us.archive.org/22/items/jstor-4558865/4558865.pdf
http://jcpa.org/article/the-egyptian-beginning-of-anti-semitism’s-long-history/
