---
layout: page
title: Theatre
author: LeynaCastro
subheadline: "LeynaCastro"
permalink: /analysis/2017/LeynaCastro-analysis
header:
  image_fullwidth: front-page.jpg
---
According to the Calendar of Coming Events, Alexandria has had many events listed and lined up from Monday to Saturday. Typically, these events consist of many different activities including people going to the theatre, listening to the orchestra, or dressing up to attend glamorous galas. I noticed that will during the Coming of Events Calendar there were many reoccurring theatre names. I decided to research the different types, but the most popular theatres of theatre with Alexandria between 1905-1907, as well.

In order to locate the different types of theatres within Alexandria, I ran an XPath query searching in element of the Coming of Events element. I received about a little more than hundred I also used the regular expression to search anything with the word theatre within the template for. In my original XPath I search through the whole content file, but I realized that I did not have it updated. This caused my search to include the element tag instead. As a result, I had to update my content folder and then began my XPath search again. I received about a little less than my original XPath search, but I coped my work and placed it into atom document. I also used regular expression to be more specific with my search and took at all the mentions of theatre within the Calendar of Events. My XPath query result then was the following: //div[@feature="comingEvents"] with regular expression \w+ theatre.

Once in atom, I deleted everything that was not labeled or named theatre. I realized that there were a couple of miss spelling and I corrected them. Overall, nine theatres were constantly contracted and used for different events. These theatres including the following: Esbekieh, Eden, Theatre des Nouveautes, New Theatre Abbas, Alhambra, Esbekieh Garden, San Stefano, Zizina, and Abbas. Although these were the reoccurring theatres within the Calendar of Coming Events, I wanted to know which of these theatres were most used and contained the most events. I placed my XPath data into tableu to provide a list of the most common mentioned in the Calendar of Coming Events. It resulted that there were four particular theatres that were often used which included the following: Esbekieh, Alhambra, Esbekieh Garden, and Zizina.

Based on the four most mentioned theatres in Alexandria, I decided to do another XPath search to determine the types of events and organizations these theatres had which made them very popular. I wanted to understand the different importance's of these reoccurring theatres, and I began to research the number one theatre, the Esbekieh Garden theatre. According to the novel Egypt and How to See it written by Lamplough, the Ezbekieh Gardens was a small threatre, where during small intervals of time small French plays performed for the Egyptian people. The author also recognized another one of the reoccurring theatres in my XPath query search named the Abbas Theatre.

It is clear that Egypt held a vast majority of culture such as French and islam. Although these types of evidence can be seen throughout the Egyptian Gazette; for example, the notes de critique which are often written in French. However, in the Abbas Theatre, they shared many different cultures, as well. According to Lamlpough's novel, the Abbas Theatre held many Italian opera, grand, and light, and French opera. It is stated that these French and Italian operas were very successful and held nearly twelve hundred people, and the author even mentioned that the seats were quite comfortable adding to the Abbas Theatre attraction. This is understandable because Egypt did not have particular demographic. In fact, during the 20th century, the population of Egypt included Jewish, Islamic, and other races and cultures.

After reviewing all the different types of theatres, it appeared that most of them held different types of appeals either comedy or drama. Additionally, according to the Theatre in Egypt Before and After the Revolution, Egypt transformed due to the rise of independent theatre at the beginning of 1990s. The author of the article Joseph Fahim states that the "modern" theatre we know today had its roots in the folk traditions and streets of Egypt. In fact, the theatre began to boom in the 20th century when Egypt became the cultural hub of the Middle East. I can tell from the articles that Egypt and its cultural society held an important impact both culturally and socially. This is shocking because many people would not believe consider Egypt as a cultural prosperity because Egypt is often recognized during the Roman Era and Cleopatra's reign. Egypt in any other light including as the central attraction of the Middle East and hub for culture and entertainment in the 20th century.

I continued my search towards other theatres and it appeared that the Zizinia Theater held more activities than any other theatre. I began another XPath search for only the word Zizina Theatre with the Calendar of Coming Events and many different types of activities occurred during the month of October such as benefits; for example, including Money Benefit for the Jewish Hospital and El Owa el Woska Benefit Performance. I decided to further investigate the Zizinia theatre and these types of benefit events. According to the article written by the Free Popular University in Egypt, on Sunday 26 May 1901 this particular university was declared officially opened at the Theatre Zizinia in Alexandria, thus, making it one of the most popular theatres in Egypt.

Furthermore, according to the biography of Omar Toussoun: Prince of Alexandria by Sahar Hamouda, El Owa el Woska was an Islamic Benevolent Society. Therefore, the Zizinia theatre became an important part of the Prince of Alexandria's social and charity work. The article demonstrated that the theatres in Egypt, especially the Zizinia Theatre, were a great source of revenue and social axis. It is evident the Prince of Alexandria supported the arts and theatres which, in turn, created a source of income for Egypt. The introduction of the famous and royal citizens using the theatre must have greatly contributed to constant appearance in the Calendar of Events and, overall, increased the popularity of the theatre to the general population.

Moreover, the article also stated that the Zizinia Theatre often occurred during the start of the year and during spring around April. This supported my data visualization because most of the theatres within Alexandria were in production from October to April including the Zizinia Theatre. It appeared that these were the times were most of the benefit performances and holiday performances occurred, thus, causing most of the theatre events to be circled around winter through spring. For example, the Prince of Alexandria, Omar Toussoun, placed many of his benefit performances during the months of spring such as April.

Overall, the theatres within Alexandria and Cairo became an important factor for Egypt. I was surprised to realize Egypt as the center hub for many cross cultural and artistic events. It is evident that the theatre was an important development for Egypt as economic reasons, but it was also important culturally because it created the foundation for the "modern" theatre seen today. The Egyptian Gazette is a great source to analyze and discover the different types of cultures and social relations within the people of Egypt during the 20th century.
