I chose to study the most popular sports in Egypt during the early 1900s for my analysis project. As a Sports Management major, this subject is very interesting to me as I can compare how sports culture has evolved and changed throughout the years. Newspaper sections titled "Sport and Play" frequently appear throughout the issues of the Egyptian Gazette, and many popular sports and sports clubs appear throughout the years.
 
By sampling several months of issues in the Egyptian Gazette and finding the "Sport and Play" section in each newspaper issue, I was able to narrow down the most mentioned sports in Egypt. The most popular sport by far seemed to be horse racing. Frequently mentioned horse racing clubs included the Helouan Sporting Club and the Khedivial Sporting Club. In the issues that I sampled, horse racing was mentioned in 26 articles. The articles described the results of various horse races, pony races, and donkey races between 1905 and 1907. These articles also described meetings scheduled by the Helouan Sporting Club and the Khedivial Sporting Club, demonstrating that Egyptian citizens were fascinated by horse racing and looked for when the next race would occur so they could find the results.

The second most frequently discussed sport in Egypt between 1905 and 1907, far ahead of the other mentioned sports, was football (soccer). I was originally going to focus on soccer as the subject of my serial question, but I decided to widen the scope of my search and compare its popularity to the other sports played during this period of Egyptian history. From the issues of the Egyptian Gazette that I sampled, football was mentioned 14 times, 12 less than horse racing. It was difficult to determine when some of the articles were talking about rugby football and when they were discussing regular football as "football clubs" can refer to both. Football/soccer clubs such as the Royal Berks Regiment, the Port Said Football Club, the Suez E.T.C. Club, and several others were mentioned numerous times throughout the sampled issues. Though not as popular as horse racing, football was definitely a prominent sport in Egypt during the early 1900s and has remained and even become more popular across the world since this time.

The third most popular sport from my sample seems to be yachting. The Khedivial Yacht Club was the most prominent yachting club in the sampled issues, and there seems to have been a genuine interest in yacht races during this period of Egypt. Due to Egypt's occupation by Great Britain during this period, it's safe to assume the wealthy British citizens who occupied Egypt during this time were more interested in this sport than the native Egyptians. Articles about the Khedivial Yacht Club either described the results of recent races or the dates of upcoming races so that readers wouldn't miss out. Yachting was mentioned in 7 different articles throughout my sample, more than any of the other minor sports in Egypt at the time.

The other, less popular sports mentioned in the issues of the Egyptian Gazette included billiards, hurdle racing, gold, tennis, swimming, cricket, rifle shooting, and even camel racing and buffalo racing. Most of these sports are still popular today, many of which are played in the Olympics; however, I don't believe camel and buffalo racing have retained their popularity in the years since.

